h1. Elasticsearch DevOps

h2. Method of Installation For Begginers and Intermediate

h3. Treat it as a Tutorial
<hr>

h3. Abstract

The document puts on the methods in the installation and configuration of ElasticSearch, on an Ubuntu 15.04 machine.

h3. Specs

 <ul>
 <li>	- ElasticSearch version 	-1.7.0</li>
 <li>	- Ubuntu Version		- 15.04</li>
 <li>	- java				- <ul><li>java version "1.7.0_80"</li>
  					<li>Java(TM) SE Runtime Environment (build 1.7.0_80-b15)</li>
  					<li>Java HotSpot(TM) 64-Bit Server VM (build 24.80-b11,    mixed mode)</li></ul>
</ul>

h3. Procedure

<ul><li>Installation of Java Virtual Machine
<ul><li>apt-get update</li>
<li>apt-get install openjdk-6-jre</li>
<li>sudo add-apt-repository ppa:webupd8team/java</li>
<li>sudo apt-get install oracle-java7-installer</li>
<li>check (by) - java -version</li></ul></li></ul>

h3. Installation of ElasticSearch

** wget https://download.elasticsearch.org/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-1.7.0.zip
** unzip elasticsearch-1.7.0.zip

h3. Configuring

** First check the unzipped ElasticSearch Directory.
** goto config/
** edit elasticsearch.yml
** cluster.name: _________ (For Distributed Systems Network Handling)
** node.name: Grepman (For Specifying the master)
** node.rack: rack314 (For Distributed Shard allocation) [check if default]
** Now create a new Data Folder [to avoid overwriting of data while ES Update]
** create data_pykih_nodes [mkdir]
** change in config -> path.data




h3. ElasticSearch Plugins

** Install Marvel For Network Analysis, Logging and Insights
 ./bin/plugin --install elasticsearch/marvel/latest
** Install Head For Distributed System Discovery and Maintainence
 bin/plugin --install mobz/elasticsearch-head


h3. Run ElasticSearch

** For Instance : goto ElasticSearch Directory
./bin/elasticsearch
** For Demon : goto ElasticSearch Directory
./bin/elasticsearch -d


